# ATC-parsing

Air Traffic Control communications semantics parsing using CCG

## [Some examples](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Fr4dt8nmRrr1WSoAIHm-hq7fppCmUkuwXlGL64Xg2-g/edit?usp=sharing)

Here CCG parser from [NLTK](https://github.com/nltk) is used to parse ATC communications.

- *Column A* contains a set of manually selected short phrases that represent important phraseology in ATC domain.

- *Column C*. Each of these phrases (from *A*) was given to chatGPT with a request to generate realistic ATC communication examples related to the phrase.  Please note that chatGPT generates phrases with punctuation that split each phrase into semantically distinct segments but this punctuation was not used in the parsing process.

- *Column D*. CCG parser was used to parse all communications generated by chatGPT. Results are present here as JSON strings. You can use free [Online JSON Viewer](https://jsonviewer.stack.hu/) to look into any of these results.



Please note that many times internal structure extracted by the parser from ATC communications corresponds to structure given by punctuation. That supports the idea that the parser may extract important information about communication semantics.
The parser uses a lexicon specifically created for the domain. This lexicon is updated regularly to improve its coverage and accuracy.

Possible application may be related to the development of the human/autopilot interface.
We believe that the lexicon may be updated in a short time to make the parser applicable to any expansion of the ATC communication language to any specific domains. We are not sure that this is possible in the case of LLM models (chatGPT for example) used for ATC communication parsing. The reason is that LLM models requere training data that may be unavailable for new domains while in the case of semantic parsing all we need is just to update lexicon.
